In this lecture, you'll learn about S&P, which is this simple network management protocol.
It's an open standard for network monitoring and you'll see it being used on nearly all vendor's devices,
not just viruses and switches, servers, everything else as well.
The terminology for S&P there is an S&P manager, which is the S&P server, and it can collect and organize
information from an S&P agent, which is S&P software, which runs on managed devices such as routers
and switches.
So that's the official terminology.
But real what you won't hear people talking about S&P manager and S&P agent, the manager will be called
an S&P server or an anonymous system is commonly used, which is network management system.
And Dimanche device is just an S&P managed device.
The S&P manager of a server can pull information from the device with a get command or the device can
push it to the server with a trap.
So, for example, the manager could query to get traffic statistics from the device or the device could
report an accident.
And HRP, the change, for example, of one of the errors in an HRP pair went down.
The router could push a notification, push a trap to the Annemasse server about that.
The standard also includes support for modifying agent information from the S&P manager to change device
behavior.
But that's not used to commonly show.
Most often the Annemasse server will pull information from the devices or the devices will send a Tropp
to notify the S&P manager that something happened.
There is an MIB is used as the database for the information, the variables on S&P managed systems,
for example, the state of an interface or vista of WCF or RIP, etc. Those variables are organized
into an Milby, the management information base, which is the database of things that you can gather
information about on your different devices.
The S&P manager and agent need to share the MIB so they know which variables can be reported on.
And different types of devices will have different MIBS because the kind of information you would want
to gather from a Windows server would be different type of information you would gather from a router
or a switch.
This diagram shows the architecture.
We've got the S&P manager, which is our Annemasse server, and in the example was a couple of managed
devices and they're both running the S&P agent software.
So we've got a switch on the router.
They've got Milby, which includes variables that are relevant to that type of device.
The S&P manager understands which might be Israel and the S&P manager can send queries to the devices
to gather information from them.
The devices can also send Tropp notifications to notify the S&P manager that something happened.
OK, so you've got that third option where the S&P manager can actually push and change information
on the devices not used as commonly.
With the SNP versions, there's been three major versions, the first version was SNP version one that
uses plain text authentication between the manager and the agent.
So the authentication is not encrypted and nobody can read it if they're sniffing that traffic.
The method is used for the authentication is community strings, which act like a password SNP version.
She also uses plain text community strings for the authentication.
The main advantage of Version Tucci over version one is it supports bulk retrieval.
So rather than having to send a new message for every piece of information it wants to get, it can
send a request for multiple pieces of information at the same time makes it more efficient.
And the latest version is SNP version three.
It does support strong authentication and encryption with the use of usernames and passwords.
It is the preferred version because it is secure, but it's not supported on all devices.
You'll find a lot of devices still out there today.
Don't have support for SNP version three yet, so not case you would have to use SNP version to see
if you did want to enable SNP.
So talking about the authentication and version one and version two, it uses community strings rather
than the normal username and password that you're used to.
So the community string is used to authenticate the S&P manager and the agent to each other.
It acts just like a password.
And the same community string value has to be set on both the agent and their manager.
That's how they authenticate to each other.
There is of read-only and read right community string's.
The read only community is used by the manager to read information and the read rate community is used
if it wants to set information.
So here's a configuration example, and for the Shishani exam, this is the same with the log as well,
you don't need to know how to set up the social observer or the S&P server because lots and lots of
different vendors are all for software products.
That's all obviously out of school for the exam.
The exam is testing you and how to configure Vista School and switches, nor any external software.
So this is how we would configure the configuration on a regular for S&P.
The two.
First up, we see a global config S&P server contact Neil at box dot com, my email address, then S&P
server location, black box VoIP.
So that's just purely informational when it's optional, if you want to set up, but you're an P server
is going to be monitoring lots of different devices.
So it's good if you've got some descriptive information about the device that will be sent to the manager.
Next part of the config is our community strengths, which are used for via authentication.
And we're configuring Boulevard Read-Only and a rewrite community saying we've got S&P server community
flat box one, which is we're using as our read-only string and S&P server community flat box to which
we're going to use this very right string.
Then we need to configure where our S&P server is.
So we say S&P server host TANDOOR Order 100 is where the server is.
And for communicating with the server when we're sending TROMPS, we're going to use our read-only community
string, which was blackbox one.
Then we put in a command to actually send troops to that server.
This is optional.
If we did not have the S&P server enabled, Chop's config command to server would still be able to query
this router to pull information from it.
But because we're configuring Trappes, we're also going to push information to the server as well.
UESHIBA When we do the lab, Damul differs in lots of different types of Tropp so you can sense you
can send information about a change in the WPEC, a change in the state of an interface, etc..
Here we're doing Trappes config, which means whenever anybody else goes to global configuration by
entering the conflict command, it's going to send a notification about that to the server.
OK.
The last thing I tell you here is some S&P, CICU to a best practice we said before the S&P is an open
standard supported by nearly all vanders devices.
Most devices will use a default read-only community, string of public and a default rewrite community
string of private and attackers can use this to read or set information on your devices.
If an attacker has got IP connectivity to the device and it's being set up with S&P and Nable using
the default community strings of public and private, then the attacker can use that to pull information
about the device.
There's likely to be sensitive information, but they can then use to launch an attack against your
devices.
So you do not want to leave that as the default.
Saying best practice is to disable S&P on devices if it's not being used.
And if you do want to use S&P, use S&P version three with secure passwords, because that is a secure
way of implementing it.
However, quite likely you will have devices that do not support version three.
So not kiis use S&P version to see but use non default communities.
Things don't use public and private.
OK, that was it for S&P.
See you in the next lecture.